Sons: Victor and ~sid:Ronald~

~img:Kate and Sid.jpg:imageborder right pc25~These were my grandparents; my farther's parents. I didn't know them well as they weren't very approachable people. Although we lived not too far away from their dreary house in east London (was it East Ham? I'm really not sure) with its dark wood-panelled walls and ancient, uncomfortable furniture, we didn't visit very often and I don't believe they ever came out to see us in Elm Park, in Essex. When I was 5 we moved down into Kent so the visits because even less frequent. Nan and Grandad eventually became too old and infirm to manage their house, so I believe my Dad bought a small property for them in Tunbridge Wells, They hated it there as Nan had been dragged away from her Church and Grandad from whatever kept him wanting to stay alive with his obsessive killjoy of a wife. Grandad died not long after and Nan went into a nursing home in Ripon, at the other end of the country, for her final years.

Nan - Kate - had early on become the victim of an extreme religious cult called The Assemblies of God. Whether she practised the standard teaching of that group or had her own version of it I do not know, so I may be doing them a disservice. But whether they know how extreme she was and did nothing, or were so lacking in community spirit they knew nothing, either way it was a life wasted in a constant self-imposed battle to guarantee herself a reserved place in Heaven.

Nan's interpretation of the Scriptures led her to believe that all pleasure was sinful, so life was conducted without radio, friends, days out or books apart from the Bible. Attendance at church was required on a daily basis and several times on Sundays, both for herself and for her 2 sons, though I'm sure Grandad found ways to escape the regime.

Little is remembered about Grandpa Sid except that in the Second World War he was employed as a ships' tally clerk, a reserved occupation that prevented him from being called up. He could never have been accused of draft-dodging, however; given that he lived and worked in the East End of London through the Blitz this was hardly a safer place to be than on the battlefields of Europe.

In his later years he developed emphysema and became a somewhat silent, reclusive figure. Few photographs appear ever to have been taken.

Sons: Victor and ~sid:Ronald~
