Daughters: Margaret, Jessie and ~sid:Joan:Joan~

~img:Wedding.jpg:imageborder right pc50~The earliest photo showing Olive and Arthur is that of their wedding on January 31, 1920. On the knee of the lady next to Arthur is Margaret, his daughter by his first marriage. Here Margaret is about 2 years old, so his earlier marriage must have been in around 1916-17.

~img:19 Albert Ave Chingford.jpg:imageborder right pc25~The Matthews family, with its 3 daughters and a variety of dogs, lived at 19 Albert Avenue, Chingford, on the northern outskirts of London as it becomes Essex.

~img:Bus.jpg:imageborder right pc25~Arthur was a bus driver, quite a respectable profession for those days, but he was further distinguished by actually owning the bus he drove. These were the days long before the idea took root of having an integrated transport network in the nation's capital, and owner drivers were the way things were done.

~img:Olive and Arthur.jpg:imageborder left pc25~Other than the wedding photo, few remain. Here's one of Olive and Arthur, taken much later in life. I'm guessing the late 1960s. I believe this is pretty much how their grandchildren remember them.

I have no information about Arthur's parents and no photos seem to have survived, if any were taken of them. Arthur was twice married; with his first wife he had a daughter, Margaret, then with Olive two more, Jessie and Joan. I can't remember if I was every told the circumstances in which his first marriage ended, though it would have been towards the end of the First World War or soon after.

~clear~

~img:Hart Family.jpg:imageborder right pc25~On Olive's side, however, cameras were not unknown and a couple of photos of her own parents, a Mr and Mrs Hart (first names unknown) have survived to this day; in particular a family group taken in about 1926 with Olive and her 2 youngest daughters Joan (L) and Jessie (R). ~img:Grandad Hart.jpg:imageborder left pc25~There's also a picture of Mr Hart and another of Olive with her mother, ~img:Olive and her mum.jpg:imageborder left pc25~the dates of which are unknown but probably the early 1920s. It seems that dogs were a constant part of their family environment, as can be seen in the latter photo.

~clear~

~img:5 The Vale, Broadstairs.jpg:imageborder right pc25~At some point after the war the Matthews retired to Broadstairs, in Kent, on the very south-eastern tip of England, where they bought "Southview", at  5 The Vale, a substantial terraced property on 4 floors, which they ran for many years as a guest house. All of their 7 grandchildren have memories from the 1950s of summer holidays spent together or separately at Southview, with daily trips to the beach, Gran's famous cooking and Grandad's slate-bedded snooker table (albeit a quarter-size one). In these memories the sun never stopped shining though I'm sure the reality couldn't have been so idyllic.

Daughters: Margaret, Jessie and ~sid:Joan:Joan~
