Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|SJoan and Ron:Joan and Ron|SOlive and Arthur:Parents: Olive and Arthur|SGraham:Son: Graham|SRonald:Joan and Husband 1: Ron|SAlbert:Joan and Husband 2: Albert|SGeorge:Joan and Partner:George~~space:3~Next: ~sid:Joan and Ron:Joan and Ron~

Joan Eileen Rosa Trott, neé Matthews: 1922-2013

Mum was the youngest of 3 sisters in the Matthews family. Margaret, the eldest, was born while her father Arthur was married to his first wife, while Jessie and then Joan were his daughters with Olive, who he married in 1920. ~sid:Olive and Arthur:Olive, Arthur~ and the 3 girls lived at 19 Albert Avenue, in Chingford, north London. Here's the house as it was then and as it looks today.

~img:19 Albert Ave Chingford.jpg:imageborder centre pc50~

There's not much recorded about life in the Matthews family, though a few remaining photos give some insights into the times. The three sisters grew up together and remained in close contact for the rest of their lives, which took them in different directions. Jessie, the middle sister, moved with her parents to Broadstairs after the war, where she marrried Norman, who worked for a removals company and always stayed close to Olive and Arthur. Margaret, always more aspirational, met and married Ted, a moderately successful photographer who ran his own shop in Staines, on the western edge of London, while Joan and ~sid:Ronald:Ron~, my parents, married at the end of the war and lived first nearby in north London then in Essex, Kent and finally Suffolk. ~img:Sisters.jpg:imageborder left pc25~~img:Sisters 2.jpg:imageborder right pc25~Here are the 3 sisters early on and then much later, towards the end of their teenage years. As can be seen from the photos, the family were dog lovers and always had one or two faithful pooches to accompany them. Mum always spoke with affection about 'Bobby' and the others so I suppose it was a little strange we didn't have a dog during my own upbringing.

Life was much simpler then than it is for most of us now. Chingford is on the northern edge of London and also on the edge of Epping Forest, so a day out in the countryside isn't a major expedition. It seems that in summer, Sundays were often spent at Pole Hill, a half-hour walk of less than two miles to the other side of Chingford. It seems from these photos that the girls were an enthusiastic and athletic trio and we are fortunate that one of the party was a photographer, a relative rarity among working-class Londoners.

~img:Pole Hill.jpg:imageborder centre PC50~

One other photo in Mum's collection is part of a remarkable story. At the end of the 1920s the British Government was keen to compete with Germany, whose Graf Zeppelin company had successfully flown an airship around the world. A Government agency was set up to build a British rival and the first working model was known as the R101. The technical challenges were immense and many corners were cut to build the prototype airship, which was given a completely undeserved airworthiness certificate and sent off on a test flight to India on October 5, 1930. ~img:R101.jpg:imageborder right PC25~Encountering bad weather in the Channel it crashed near Beauvais in France and burst into flames, with 48 of the 54 passengers killed, including Lord Christopher Thompson, the Air Minister who had initiated the Airship programme as his own vanity project. See [this Airships blog](https://www.airships.net/blog/british-airship-r101-crashes-killing-48-day-1930/), a fascinating account of the disastrous consequences of foolish pride in high places.

My mother was 8 years old at the time and remembered the R101 passing over the house. Whether it was on its fateful flight we do not know, but her father took this picture as it passed over. It's interesting that Chingford is close to the route the R101 must have taken on its way from Cardington, in Bedford, where it was built and stationed, to its disastrous premature end in France, in which case this photo may be the last one to have been taken of the airship before it crashed.

## Evacuation ##

The Second World War started when Joan was 17, and soon the Blitz began; daily and nightly raids by fleets of German bombers. The Government set up Operation Pied Piper in September 1939 to evacuate 3.5 million citizens, in particular children, at risk from the nightly bombing. Joan was part of this operation and was moved to Bournemouth, where she stayed until the end of the War. ~img:Digs at Boscombe.jpg:imageborder left PC25~~img:Harvesting.jpg:imageborder right PC25~She evidently made many friends - that's Joan at the left-hand end of the middle row - and during at least one late summer took part in harvesting operations.

Joan worked at the Tithe Redemption Agency, based in the Grand Hotel. Tithes were a form of taxation dating back to pre-industrial times when people would give a proportion of their income to the maintenance of the Church. ~img:Bournemouth.jpg:imageborder right PC25~The system was completely outdated and the Agency was needed to clear up all the outstanding tithes, as part of the introduction of a modern national taxation system.

Joan used to travel to work by bus with a group of friends, and started to notice a young soldier who took the same bus. Her friends encouraged her to say hello and thereby caused her introduction to Ron, later to become her husband and my father. I never thought to ask what he was doing in Bournemouth as he had no known connections to the town, but as an Army man he would no doubt have been sent there on leave or for some other official purpose. They married soon after the end of the War.

Joan outlived two husbands and became the travelling companion of a third partner until her death in 2013 at the age of nearly 91. From here on my account is of Mum and each of her husbands/partner as couples rather than individually.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|SJoan and Ron:Joan and Ron|SOlive and Arthur:Parents: Olive and Arthur|SGraham:Son: Graham|SRonald:Joan and Husband 1: Ron|SAlbert:Joan and Husband 2: Albert|SGeorge:Joan and Partner:George~~space:3~Next: ~sid:Joan and Ron:Joan and Ron~
